---
title: Services
layout: post
thumbnail: /imgs/sdb512.png
image: /imgs/sdb512.png
version: our boxes open
url_site: https://store.services.sapo.pt/en/Catalog
site: visit project website 
excerpt: Our comprehensive web service catalog allows anyone to easily create rich web applications that leverage the same APIs we use for developing our own services - and the platform that supports it is going commercial.
---


### What is it?

SAPO Broker is a distributed messaging framework. Among other features, it provides minimal administration overhead, Publish-Subscribe and Point-to-Point messaging, guaranteed delivery and wildcard subscriptions.

<span class="podium">sapo</span> Broker is written in Java, but has client libraries for [Perl][pl], [Python][py], [PHP][php], [.NET][net], [C][c] and quite a few [others][o], and you can talk to it using Thrift, XML or JSON.

To start using <span class="podium">sapo</span> Broker take a look at the Quick Start tutorial, and then please read the User Guide for more in depth information.

You can access our public broker server at <code>broker.labs.sapo.pt</code> and subscribe to a number of public topics to experiment with.

### How do I get started?

Download the latest distribution bundle and read the Quick Start. To learn more about the design and concepts of <span class="podium">sapo</span> Broker read the User Guide.

You can fetch the latest version of the <span class="podium">sapo</span> Broker source code from our Git repo. For checking out the code use the <code>git</code> command line client as follows:

<pre class="prettyprint">
git clone git@github.com:sapo/sapo-broker.git
</pre>

### License

The SAPOBroker core is distributed under the [BSD license][bsd]. Some dependencies or extensions are under [separate licensing][l].

### How to get involved

Go ahead and [fork][repo] the project or subscribe to the [mailing-list][ml].


